---
layout: post
title: "2020 Vision"
comments: true
description: "My goals for the new year."
keywords: "blog, 2020, goals, resolutions"
reading_time: 4
---

Happy new year! Recently I've started to reflect more on myself, and every half year or so I try to set some new things that I can focus/work on. I'm writing my goals for this upcoming half-year here so that I can hopefully feel more committed to them, and follow through with them as best as I can. In no particular order:

1. Allow more time for socializing/focus more on socializing
2. Continue to take care of my health, especially my diet
3. Work on anxiety/general confidence
4. Write one blog post per month
5. Reduce screen time on phone
6. Focus less on money and more on experiences/value gained
7. When in conversation, be fully present with no distractions
8. Arrive early to things whenever possible
9. Do one thing at a time

### Focus More on Socializing

There were a lot of times in the past semester where I would either be hanging out with friends and feel the need to get back to working, or I would have the opportunity to go hang out and not go because I felt like I had work to do. I definitely still want to focus on work and being productive, but I want the emphasis to be on productivity. I believe that I can do the same amount of work in less time if I'm focused (see my last goal), and I want to use some of this extra time to socialize more. I find that I'm usually at my happiest whenever I've been around people, and that I'm often in a worse mood if I've been isolated for a while.

### Continue to Take Care of My Health

I think I've already been doing this a bit better, but I want to continue to eat as well as possible and to exercise a good amount. My goal is to do at least 4 workouts or cardio-related activities per week.

### Work on Anxiety/General Confidence

For this one, I had two situations in mind. The first is presentations—for some reason, I've started to get extremely nervous when doing any kind of presentation (to the point that it impacts how I talk). Though I'm not quite sure how I'll get better at this, I want to be more conscious of it and work towards reducing that anxiety.

The other situation is in conversation; I'll often overthink things that I say (either during or after the conversation), and I feel that this hasn't been beneficial for me. I'll look to be more in the moment in each conversation I have, and then accept how it went afterwards.

### Write One Blog Post Per Month

This one is pretty self-explanatory, but I want to write and publish one blog post on this site at the start of each month. This is the first one!

### Reduce Screen Time on Phone

I've been pretty inconsistent with this one in the past, as I'll average anywhere from 3 to 5+ hours of screen time on my phone per day. Considering that there are about 16 awake hours in a given day, 5 hours is a lot! I want to consistently average less than 3 hours per day, and use most of my screen time for more important things like email and messaging.

### Focus Less on Money and More on Experiences/Value Gained

This is another thing I've struggled with. I don't like to spend money unless it's on a physical item that I'll use for a while (e.g. music equipment). In other words, I usually hesitate to spend money on food, going out, etc. I don't want to start spending all of my money or anything like that, but I want to be a bit more okay with spending larger amounts of money on experience-based expenses. If something is expensive but it will likely lead to a memorable experience, then I'll be okay with spending money on that thing.

### When in Conversation, Be Fully Present With No Distractions

Whenever I'm in a group or 1-on-1 conversation, I want to fully engage in the conversation and not be distracted. I'll often go on my phone or laptop, and I almost never get any value out of leaving the conversation to do this. I want to be either all in or all out—either be fully in the conversation, or leave if I want to go do something else.

### Arrive Early to Things Whenever Possible

This one's simple: in the past I've always aimed to arrive on time to things, but inevitably I end up being late most of the time. I want to do a small mental shift so that I aim to arrive early; this way I'll arrive on time in the worst case instead of being late.

### Do One Thing at a Time

This one relates to the theme of minimizing distractions. In general, I want to minimize how much I multitask and instead commit to doing one thing at a time. I'll set a target amount of time that I want to work on something for, and then do only that thing (as much as possible).

### Conclusion

I wrote 9 goals here, which is pretty ambitious. However, I think that I can at the very least see improvement in each thing I've listed. Most of these goals also aren't measurable in any concrete way, so I will need to check in on myself regularly. This should be a good learning experience, and I'm excited to give it a shot. Thanks for reading, I hope you have a great year!
